AFAR Logo - Main

Destinations

Trip Ideas

Tips + News

Hotels

Journeys

Podcasts

Subscribe

Travel InspirationHotelsHotels We Love

By Jennifer Flowers   •  July 10, 2023

The World's 15 Best Glamping Retreats

These 15 glamping retreats are the best in the world at delivering the finer things under canvas.

1. Clayoquot Wilderness Resort
Location: Vancouver Island, British Columbia
In a remote spot off Vancouver Island in British Columbia, surrounded by rain forest, mountains, and beaches, Clayoquot Wilderness Lodge first opened in 1998 as an overnight floating resort experience. Since then, it has grown into a luxury retreat with 25 tented accommodations along the banks of Clayoquot Sound. In 2021, it relaunched as part of the collection of Baillie Lodges. The tents, built on raised platforms a little way from the main camp, feature cozy Adirondack-style beds, wood-burning stoves, and contemporary-feeling furnishings in neutral hues that complement the natural surroundings. They also have in-floor heating and en suite bathrooms with indoor/outdoor showers.

2. Aman Camp Sarika
Location: Canyon Point, Utah
Set within a secluded canyon adjacent to Grand Staircase–Escalante National Monument, Aman Camp Sarika is a collection of 10 low-slung canvas pavilions that blend with their surroundings. It launched in 2020 as the new tented extension of Amangiri. Each one- or two-bedroom dwelling (1,882 and 2,825-square-feet, respectively) features a spacious lounge, bar, and dining area. Bathrooms have deep soaking tubs and indoor and outdoor showers that face natural rock escarpments estimated to be 164 million years old. Terraces features plunge pools, telescopes, and cozy firepits.

3. Under Canvas Bryce Canyon
Location: Bryce Canyon, Utah
Founded in 2012 by Sarah and Jacob Dusek in Bozeman, Montana, Under Canvas offers upscale safari-style tents in 12 different locations across the United States, all next to popular national parks. Debuted in 2022, Under Canvas Bryce Canyon puts visitors within an easy 15-minute drive of the entrance to Utah's Bryce Canyon National Park. The camp's 50 tents are set on 700 acres of rolling grasslands ringed by craggy mountains. All tents, which are fully solar powered, feature West Elm furnishings, en suite bathrooms with low-flow toilets and hot water, king-size beds, and wood-fired stoves for chilly nights.

4. The Resort at Paws Up
Location: Greenough, Montana
One of the most luxurious Western guest ranches since it opened in 2005, the Resort at Paws Up in Greenough, Montana, sprawls over 37,000 acres of rocky peaks, meadows where elk roam, and ponderosa pines in the Blackfoot Valley. While the retreat's accommodations range from luxury homes with verandas to design-driven, adults-only Green O, the glamping tents are among the most sought-after spots; they are bookable in the warmer months between mid-May and mid-October. Located in such picturesque areas as the Blackfoot River and Elk Creek, the glamping sites are organized into six separate camps that take anywhere between two and six guests each. Canvas suites feature private baths, large beds with wooden frames, and even chandeliers.

5. Dunton River Camp
Location: Dolores, Colorado
Less than two hours from Colorado's Mesa Verde National Park, the 500-acre Dunton River Camp features eight luxury tents with showstopping views of the San Juan Mountains or the west fork of the Dolores River. Each tent sleeps two people. When you're not off exploring the ancient pueblo cliff dwellings of Mesa Verde, steam in a streamside sauna, explore the area on a complimentary mountain bike, or visit the only active geyser in Colorado, which is on-site at the Dunton River Camp. Back in your tent, unwind in the six-foot soaker tub.

6. Collective Retreats Governors Island
Location: Governors Island, New York
Eight minutes by ferry from downtown Manhattan, Governors Island is a tiny 172-acre island and public park enjoyed by locals and visitors alike. And since 2018, people have been able to spend the night there at Collective Retreats Governors Island. There are 27 "Journey" tents or 10 "Summit" tents, both featuring real beds and mattresses, fully functional electricity, and French press coffee bars. The Journey tents offer a slightly cozier option and shared bathrooms within a two-minute walk of each campsite. For those wanting a truly over-the-top camping experience, Summit tents each come with a private en suite bathroom with rain shower, spacious deck with Adirondack chairs.

7. Mendocino Grove
Location: Mendocino, California
We'll never say no to a camping trip in California—especially if it involves staying in a comfortable safari-style tent in a secluded forest by the ocean. This is exactly what guests can expect at Mendocino Grove, a 37-acre property on a rocky cliffside just south of the quiet town of Mendocino on Northern California's coast. Each of the 60 tents has a bed equipped with a heated mattress pad, a campfire pit, a private deck, and a picnic table. Tents are well spaced out to maximize privacy, while shared bathrooms are stocked with lavender-scented amenities.
